Huh?
[KOGUMA]
Hmm?
They said in the weather report,
that due to radiant cooling,
or a cold air mass,
or something like that, this
morning would be as cold
as a midwinter day.
[KOGUMA] It didn't sink in
till I got on my Cub.
But when I started riding,
I realized how much more
I can feel the seasons
changing when I'm on a bike.
[KOGUMA] And riding through
that freezing air...
It felt like I was
swimming in ice.
[KOGUMA whimpers]
[REIKO]
Ah... It's so warm...
[sighs] We have to deal
with this weather.
You're right.
This cold's becoming too much.
I don't like it, but we
might not have a choice.
We always have an option.
I choose "no."
I get it, but I'm not sure if
anything else would work.
I don't care.
They're super dorky,
and I won't buy one.
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
It's starting to get
too cold to eat outside.
Ah...
[REIKO]
Nice!
Your meal tin works
for cooking rice, huh?
[SHII]
Excuse me.
I'd like to eat with you,
if you don't mind.
Sure.
Ah...!
[REIKO chuckles]
Here.
This should warm you up.
Oh, thank you.
[SHII]
And one for you, Reiko.
Thanks so much.
[SHII]
Hmm.
Tè al latte.
It's a kind of milk tea
they make in Italy,
and just to help with the cold,
I added a tiny hint of grappa.
What's grappa?
[SHII] It's a brandy they make
from leftover wine pomace.
Ah...
Stand up for a second.
[SHII]
Huh?
- [REIKO] Hmm.
- [SHII] Ah!
- [REIKO] Hmm...
- [SHII] Uh, Reiko?
Oh my gosh!
That's perfect. You'll fit.
What?
If we fold Shii up, we can
keep her in my storage box,
and then we can basically
have hot coffee and tea
on demand no matter
where we go!
- Ah!
- [sighs]
But seriously,
is this coat enough
to get you through winter?
Huh?
[REIKO]
Even when you're on the Moulton?
Oh. It keeps the cold out
well enough, I suppose.
[REIKO]
Hmm...
Although...
If your jacket's not enough,
you could always add a layer.
If I could afford another layer.
That jacket is all she's got.
How troublesome.
Ah. If you could visit the shop,
I think we might have
just the thing!
[SHII]
I'm home!
Hey! Welcome back!
Hi!
Just a moment, please. Mm!
Could I interest
you girls in a cup of
our Mandheling high roast?
Uh... Yes, please.
I'll have one, too.
[SHII]
Sorry to keep you.
I was looking for this.
[KOGUMA]
Mm...
[sniffs]
It smells kinda weird.
[REIKO]
Lemme see!
This sweater is made
of unscoured wool!
Awesome.
I've never seen
the stuff in person!
"Unscoured?"
[SHII'S FATHER]
Fresh off the sheep.
With as little
processing as possible.
There's still lanolin on it
when they spin it into yarn.
Outdoorsmen in the Rockies and
the Northern Territories
of Canada don't
trust anything else.
All the hunters line their
jackets with unscoured wool
to stop the cold.
Burt Munro was wearing it
when he set speed records
on the world's fastest Indian!
Most riding suits
are synthetic fabric,
but Burt raced across
the Utah salt flats
in New Zealand sheep's wool.
It's hard to imagine
wearing that on a bike.
But instead of wearing
the cardigan, what if you
converted it into a liner
for your motorcycle jacket?
And there would probably
be enough left over to make
a pair of stockings for you!
That could be cool.
Please, Papa? Can we?
Come to think of it,
you've hardly worn that
since I bought it for you.
I'd be happy to see it go
to someone who would
get some use out of it.
Reiko?
[SHII]
What do you think?
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
It is very warm.
[door bell jingles]
[SHII'S FATHER, SHII]
Hmm?
[REIKO]
Mm?
Okay. We'll take it.
I should warn you that
you'll need to add some oil
whenever you wash it.
That means you have to soak it
in hot water with a little bit
of lanolin mixed in. It's pretty
high-maintenance material.
If it's high-maintenance,
I know I can trust it.
[SHII'S FATHER] Hmm.
Well, as a present for Shii,
it was a bit of a bust.
I'm glad to know it'll be of
some good to somebody.
Thank you very much, sir.
Are you ready
to get started on it?
[SHII] Huh? I suggested it
because I'd assumed
you'd be able to
sew it yourself!
After all, you repair
your motorbike.
I can't.
[SHII]
Ah! Papa?
Not my thing!
Sewing on buttons is about
as much as I'm good for.
Don't bother asking Mom.
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
[REIKO slurps]
[sighs]
Hmm?
[GROUP]
Hmm...
We need to get to school now.
Spoken like a lady with
a surefire plan in mind.
If things go right,
we can have this taken care of
by the end of the day.
We're gonna have
to get going, then.
They'll be closing
the gates soon. Let's go!
Wait, right now?
Is there any chance
you have a helmet?
I think we still have
the helmet Shii used to wear
back in middle school,
if that would work.
[SHII]
Mm...
[KOGUMA]
Here.
Huh?
[REIKO grunts]
[REIKO chuckles]
Ah...
[SHII]
Wah-hah...!
[REIKO]
We're fine, I promise!
[SHII]
Too fast!
[STUDENTS murmuring]
[TEACHER 2A] Turn a cardigan
into a jacket liner?
And a pair of stockings!
I think it might be
the only way to keep us
from freezing to death.
Heh. That's a little
melodramatic. Can I take a look
at the material
I would be working with?
[KOGUMA]
Here you go.
[gasps] No way!
Is this unscoured wool?!
That's right.
But if we can't do this,
we might have to throw it away.
That is out of the question!
Besides, as a teacher I can't
let my students freeze to death.
Just leave it to me.
[giggling]
[STUDENTS]
See you tomorrow!
There!
[gasping]
[TEACHER 2A] I thought a zipper
might damage whatever you wore
under it, or rub
against your skin,
so I went with a button-down.
And these are soft rubber
buttons like they use
on rugby jerseys,
so it should be
a comfortable fit with whatever.
Cool...
[TEACHER 2A]
And your stockings.
[gasps]
One more thing.
Here. For your thermos.
[gasps]
[TEACHER 2A]
Do you think it'll be useful?
Yes!
Feel free to ask for
anything else you need.
If it's made of wool,
I can take care of it.
[REIKO, SHII chuckle]
[GIRLS]
Thank you very much!
[KOGUMA]
Hmm.
Heh.
How are your stockings?
[REIKO]
Hmm. They feel pretty nice.
[SHII]
Hmm.
And is the liner working well?
Better than I imagined.
I don't think I'll have to worry
about the cold for a while.
[REIKO]
Hmm.
[chuckles]
[ANNOUNCER 2A]
And now, the weather.
The Kofu Local Meteorological
Office has reported
the first snow of the
season has arrived on
the slopes of Mount Fuji.
The Meteorological
Agency's AMeDAS system
anticipates more precipitation.
[KOGUMA whimpers]
The liner isn't enough
on its own anymore.
[REIKO]
It's the worst feeling, right?
Once it gets colder than
your gear can handle,
it's like you're
not even wearing it.
You know what we have
to do, don't you?
I am not doing it!
It would totally wreck
my Hunter's aesthetic.
I get that, but what other
choice do we have?
- Good morning, you two!
- I'd rather freeze!
Ugh!
[SHII]
Mm.
Are the two of you
heading out somewhere?
Just some shopping. Bye.
[REIKO]
Stop acting like we've decided!
Please come by the café after!
We'll have hot coffee
waiting for you!
[whines]
Honestly, if we don't install
them, we're gonna―
[REIKO]
No way!
If I can't get through
the winter without one,
I'd rather leave my bike
locked up till Spring.
It's not like I'm
excited about it, either.
I can barely afford it.
Even used ones are expensive.
[KOGUMA, REIKO whimpering]
Ah! That's nice.
[sighs]
There it is.
[KOGUMA]
A windshield.
You want it?
[KOGUMA groans]
[PATRON 9A]
Beg your pardon.
[BOTH gasp]
[CASHIER 9A]
Thank you very much!
- [KOGUMA] Excuse me.
- Huh?
[KOGUMA] I was looking for
a Super Cub windshield.
Do you have any more?
Aw, too bad. He just bought
the last one we had.
Is there anything in stock
that's compatible with
a Hunter Cub?
[CASHIER 9A]
Hmm...
Doesn't look like there's
any in our inventory.
Well, that's good.
If you did, I might've done
something silly, like buy one.
Yeah, me, too.
To think I almost talked
myself into buying one.
Hang on. One of our
sister locations has some.
I can put in
an order if you like.
We'd get them in
two or three days.
[BOTH gulp]
[BOTH]
Mm-mm, mm-mm, mm-mm!
[SHII]
Thanks for your patience.
It's cappuccinos today.
Nice.
I can smell a little
hint of brandy.
That's Uchida Grappa,
made here in Yamanashi!
I bet a little more would
make it even better!
[SHII]
Not a chance.
[REIKO groans]
[SHII] If either of you need
a refill, just let me know.
We will, thanks.
So, a windshield...
What do you think?
No way. They're too dorky.
I read they're
the most effective way
to handle the cold.
Okay. So are you gonna get one?
If I did, I would be pretty
broke for the rest of the month.
[SHII]
Um.
Isn't there some way you could
test one if you're not sure
you're ready to buy?
I got to try an espresso
machine at the school festival.
That's what convinced me
to get one.
[gasps]
[KOGUMA]
So we just say,
"Hey, can I ride off
on one of your bikes?"
I can't imagine any dealer
would let us do that
just to try out a windshield.
[REIKO]
I can!
Let's go!
Huh? As in, now?
Trust me. It'll work out.
Thanks for the drink!
[gulping]
- [KOGUMA] Bye.
- Ah!
Aw...
[REIKO]
See you later, Shii.
[SHII]
You'll come by again, right?
If this cold lasts, definitely.
[SHII]
I hope we get snow soon.
'Scuse me, mister!
[MANAGER 3A]
Well, this sounds urgent.
It is! Can we borrow a Cub?
Huh?
[MANAGER 3A]
My company bikes are all on
the road at the moment.
I hate to disappoint you but...
this is all I've got right now.
[REIKO]
The frame is bent.
Was it in an accident?
[MANAGER 3A] It had a close
encounter with a truck.
And the oil filter cap
went flying off somewhere
after it got hit.
So naturally, the oil leaks.
But I kept running it
without making the repair.
Now the cylinder and
the head are in a state.
[REIKO]
Does it not run?
It'll survive a quick trip
out and back,
if you don't mind the burning
oil and the knocking.
Slower than
a stock fifty, though.
It'll be okay.
[REIKO, KOGUMA]
Thank you very much!
[KOGUMA]
So?
[REIKO]
Yeah, I'm convinced.
Even though they're super dorky?
Getting too hung up
on looks is dorkier.
Can you buy one
and still afford food?
I should have enough rice
and meals-in-a-bag to get by
until my scholarship pays out.
[REIKO]
Cool.
The windshield was really nice,
but it was the only
part worth saving.
That Cub was a nightmare.
He said he was gonna scrap it.
You should pick it up.
No, thank you.
Not even for free.
[BOTH chuckle]
Gosh, they really
love their Cubs.
I'm jealous.
Heh.
[BOTH]
Mm.
Mm-hmm.
Awesome.
Awesome! It's great! I love it!
[REIKO]
Yahoo!
[laughs]
[gasps]
[KOGUMA] That day,
we rode and rode non-stop.
[KOGUMA] We kept riding
even as the sun went down.
We were so excited
we could hardly feel
the temperature dropping.
It finally felt like we'd
done enough to prepare
for the winter.
And we'd had a lot
of people help us out.
I realized that working
on my Cub made it easier
to talk to people.
Thank you so much for coming!
[KOGUMA] Before long, autumn
will give way to winter.
That's fine.
The cold won't slow us down now.
No matter how chilly it gets.
We'll still be on the road
riding our Cubs in comfort.
In the end...
...getting our bikes winterized
didn't leave us feeling boxed in
like we thought. In fact,
it opened up a whole new world
of potential and
promise for us.
[KOGUMA chuckles]
[KOGUMA] Episode 10,
"Snow."